Development log
3/16
certificates.py
	Completed first implementation and documentation of the certificate file
	
userprofile.py
	Removed the lang and loc fields from the profile object. These have not been
	used or gathered since the prototype of 6.002x. 
	Added considerable pydoc to the defined functions.
	Moved to using logging rather than print() for error messages	

3/17
user.py
	Removed the unused fields from the user object. It might makes sense to compress
	the csv files in a separate function that would read in the csv that was created
	by toCSV to remove these fields. This would require a change in the builddict 
	function, but would both save space and probably make everything faster.
	
course_enrollment.py
	Created a module containing an object that encapsulates the course enrollment data.
	This is a simple data file, containing the user id, the course id, and the date of
	enrollment. There is a function to scrub the csv file, and one to build a dictionary
	from the csv file. The internal id is not stored in the object.
	
convertfiles
	Added a package convertfiles, which contains the programs used to convert from xml to 
	csv. Placed toCSV.py, toCSVsmall.py, and xmltocsv.py into this package. Note that
	eclipse got funky at understanding that these modules now live within the package.
	
activity_log
	Added a package activity_log, containing the programs used to extract and manipulate
	the log files that contain all of the course activity. Placed combineLogbyTime.py,
	findEventTypes.py, and splitFiles.py into this package.
	
demographics
	Added a package demographics, containing the programs used to determine the demographics
	for a course. Moved getenrollmentdata,py, ph207demographcis.py, scrubstudentprofile.py, userprofile.py 
	to this package. 
	
demographics/ph207demographics
	Changed the name of the program to demographics.py, and added a first parameter that will
	indicate the name of the course for which the report (and the corresponding file) are
	prepared.